all right. What else? politics deals with a question of power right That's the introduction to empowerment?
What is power very quickly. Come on, or you should know these 2 concepts.
They're not that difficult? what is power where we're talking about having the capacity to impact public policy.
All right. So we're talking about politics politics is tied to the whole concept of power, right?
And we're talking about empowerment as a concept We must have an understanding of the notion of what is power.
Now does power come? In what form does it come? in many different forms, different forms?
By care what forms to be examples of power, either one of them Education, all right, knowledge. Okay.
What else? , your position in your workforce? All right.
Well numbers of people. What else? social status? social status position, right? If you're the chairperson of a major corporation, which you say that that person has some pump, all right, especially your Ibm General Motors or
Chrysler Corporation is like some example some gender race can give you power. Gender race, right?
Let's deal with it all right gender rigs let's talk about race in terms of power.
If I made the statement which I did that there's no fear factor when it comes to the Chicano Latino community, there is much more of a fear factor in dealing with the African-american community am I not
dealing with a racial factor of power y because it's going to affect the decision.
You can process the policy after bit. Then it kind of passed.
African Americans have more organized and have more meters I don't want you just because we have more leaders who've been known or more rugged by one. But you are recognizing all right.
I think that's a good point that isn't part of the fear fact, I mean, if one looks at what Jesse Jackson is doing.
These are the who the major League baseball teams and all that football and all that.
What's his underlying argument what's his criticism, if they're not sufficient numbers of what Well, he says minorities, he's smart these boxes about minorities. but he's going to talk about
actually emerge in the managerial process right now the material older managers, etc.
Right, all right. Have you heard of Latino say this, or with a cloud that a Joseph Jackson is September eleventh?
Hmm! we have and we're going to get into that in our discussion. all right.
So the whole notion of power is very important to understand, because here I am making some statements, all right, some generalities that some people would say are not true.
I mean, how can Dr. or say? the Latinos have no more real power, no fear factor.
After all, they have 2 people that are Cabinet members.
They have supervisor here in los angeles they have city council people in Los Angeles, and yet he's saying that they have no power where power is relative as well.
Right it's relative it's relational power it's relational hockey.
You measure power. power is impossible to measure all right. In other words, you cannot break power apart into the various ingredients, and say a B C. D.
These are the ingredients of power. We can make generalities position well.
All these different things that i've talked about but power is difficult to measure, so that we must deal with a whole question of empowerment. I'm.
Also the perspective of potential power versus actual power. There is a difference.
If I am, for example, the president of a major labor union or a major corporation, the position as president of that entity gives me so much power.
But yet, if I do not know how to utilize that entity in terms of its mobilization for a given objective like a labor union, if I have 14,000,000 people as members, and that don't show any manifestation of
power in my power. Well, it has to be measured by what you're trying to do what the objectives are example labor today is being challenged by perhaps one of the most serious pieces of not legislation, percent because it's not
in the legislative formula. But a proposed North American Free Trade agreement that had passed by Congress is going to impact 3 economies, Canada, Us.
And Mexico. labor as a sector is going to be the most impacted.
How is labor today mobilizing Its great power not just the Afl Cio, And it's 14,000,000 members, the United Auto Workers and many other labor organizations.
What are they doing to influence public policy, dividing off to combine how they embodied the wrong by a line with other.
The reforming coalitions among themselves are forming coalitions with who environmental groups right?
Because environment, supposedly is going to be also negatively impacted especially along the border. All right.
So there's a lot of coalition building but can you say it's a story that labor is doing what they were infamous for going 3040 years ago.
Take it to the streets. Right good point they have, he said. They have lost power.
So your measurement of a loss of power is based on what what they can't fit to art.
But you don't see what you read about right today, that's one perception is the black community less powerful today in 1,993 than it was 1,968 where the poor people's
March in Washington, or 1,963 Again, I know.
March to Washington, I. Washington. when Martin Luther King gave us famous speech.
I have a dream. There were 300,000 people that march in 1,963, which period of time, historically speaking, was a time where blacks were manifesting much more power Today 1,963 in 1,900 and
68. what? and then manifestly beginning to get more, when an incompetent bring to a beer compression 1,993 1,968 during those 3 periods when would you say
blacks demonstrated much more power. You know they have one power.
Why do you say that? Because they're more recognized those recognition give you power to some aspects here.
I think I think the problem with your question is a different sort of priority.
We were good. You have African Americans more institutionalized in our system health than they were in 6.
Stop right there today. They have how many congressmen 3 8 38 Congressional River?
I don't know how many of you have 1,963 I'm.
Not even sure, I guess, but I probably no more than 2 or 3.
If they were lucky, all right, reduce it in 68.
The flexible lot, more mobileized, much better mobilized.
300,000 Marshall Washington as an example you probably couldn't. Get that today. You know what you got was the high point of the mobilization capability with 1,970 during the era of the
Vietnam war 25,000 Chicanos were mobilized in Los Angeles, the national Chicago Moratorium.
Against the war No one has come, even close with the exception of the death of Javascript, or there were approximately 40,000 people to mobilize large numbers of people into some kind of effort, or movement, all right so
he's correct it. depends on the time depends on the circumstances and the form of power institutionalized powers different from the unconventional form that you just described. all right i'm trying to get at this potential
versus action. My argument sample it is, is that Chicanos, in 1,993 fast developing a high potential for power.
But there are a long way from actualizing the true power in other words, that we're still at the potential phase of our empowerment and out of the actual power phase.
All right. anything else. i'm most 2 concepts all right let's get into discussion on board of participation, and these are kind of general comments.
I don't have time to give you a lot of statistics.
I'll give you some general trends some statistical information that will prove a point that will introduce a subject of political participation in the United States.
Now in a democracy. participation of the citizenry is imperative.
It is absolutely imperial. If it's to be a democracy to have the people participate.
Now, what am I trying to say? What am I trying to say?
It is imperative for the people to participate in the political process.
Another way of saying, What am I saying? We have to vote anyone.
But why is it important in a democracy for the people to participate?
Still the question, not the methods People don't vote so they only agree with the monarchy that has control on what's a monarchy?
What Close was a royal type of family, right king not elected i'm editory, 7 and 7 all right.
But what am I doing? what's the essence of what I'm asking for?
Yes, far away by it's very nature democracy demands suffering. Third, you made a statement by the very nature of democracy.
What is a democracy? Democracy is ruled by the people all right.
There are most corruptals, right? people rule another Greek word.
The Greeks word major contributors to this political process of development concepts.
They're most collected people don't remember rule we tell the world that democracy what we practice is that correct is that what we tell the world?
Yes, what else do we say in selling our political system?
And so in our political system we make it someonymous.
So now by saying that we don't distinguish the form of economic system versus a political system, and that we put it in the same kind.
Democracy and capitalism are essentially the same. Are they the same?
No, but here we do. and if we listen carefully and read carefully all these books on international relations, foreign relations, and so forth, what is it that we tell the world that America is the cradle of the democracy?
We are the cradle of democracy. we are the bastion of the free world, etc., etc., etc., and one, while Reagan was in power, We talked about the evil empire right
categorizing Soviet Union and the so-called Communist Empire as an evil empire.
All right. I say this because there is a tendency for some of us to believe, because we have been conditioned right. who conditions us to think the way we think what we said earlier.
On my code through school schools right? schools media everything else I mean doesn't the media tell us that there's only a two-party system in this country.
Why is it that the Communist Party, the Socialist Workers Party, the Prohibitionist party, the American Independent party?
All these parties that we have supposedly minority parties don't get the same kind of treatment as a Democratic and Republican parties.
They're not mainstream right we have a two-party system.
We are taught when the very beginning that there's only 2 parties That's a different subject.
But when the point i'm trying to make is that if we look into the realities of what we have as a political system, we tell the world in this country, democracy is very much alive, because we have a Congress we have a supreme
court, we have a presidency. we have a political system that is governed by certain principles and laws that emanate from what the Constitution, which is a living document.
The Constitution right? That is very much the document that protects conceptual and otherwise.
Our way of life, our democracy, and so forth. Well, if we remember our Chicago history, my point is, we get into a whole question of Chicago.
Political participation is that It's difficult for us as Chicago as we get into it to understand. why is it including ourselves?
Because a lot of chicago's don't even understand why we don't vote, Why don't we participate?
And they come up with all kinds of somewhat superficial analysis that much of our political behavior is a product of what was covered in this class under history and culture.
And what did I say? 2 major currents of history, 2 major currents of political culture, right?
And what is political culture? I'll get back to that concept but just general terms?
What is political culture? What is political culture? All right I want you to put that concept down?
Because you're going to hear about it in the next few minutes.
It's very important that you understand that concept political culture. but I want thing I want to underline here is that we are products of a historical touristic process.
Mexico, sister Us history, We're products of what a cultural process.
That's also Mexican and American whatever America means right so those 2 major ingredients have molded the rationale that I'm using in this class to explain why is it that we're still at the potential
phase of empowerment, and we still have a long ways to go before we realize that concept that I described called empowerment.
But before we get into that substance of that is that I want to just briefly cover that, even though i'm saying that Chicago does not vote in great numbers, that we don't participate in many organizations in
great numbers. The fact is, as I mentioned earlier, and even though we tell the world, we are the speak of a white freedom, liberty, justice, and all these different things.
By, and large, not lot of people participate politically across the board. I encourage you.
African American don't care if you're asian America i'll create your latino, or whatever most Americans do not vote in great numbers, so it's a double whammy introducing the subject matter here Americans in
comparison to Great Britain in comparison to France in comparison to Germany in comparison to Italy.
We don't vote in the numbers that they do all right I mean if we had more time, I could give you statistic after statistic Italy, for example, has a border turnout. i'm 90% of those are algebra at
will We're lucky We get 50% are we less democratic.
Are they more democratic? Why is it that Italy has a much larger higher order level of participation?
Germany or even Canada, 70%. The fact is, a democracy in this country is dying.
I want you to put that down because it's going to be important at least for my analysis.
I don't want you to agree or disagree at this point. Just write it down.
You have plenty of time one week to think about it.
American democracy is dying. I want you to put that whole phrase in black and white.
American democracy is dying, and I want you to try to think of why, as we do to the discussion which come on participation, and we'll get back to that statement this week.
So for us as Chicago is a double jeopardy. That's another point.
I wanted to score because of a larger general population doesn't vote a great numbers when you're at the bottom of the political socioeconomic total pool you're at the bottom you're at the very bottom with
all the problems of poverty and all the social problems that work we've been talking about It's understandable why perhaps Chicago do not vote for participating great numbers.
Now the literature in political science, dealing with factors influence before she boy, are many.
How many. So the culture aluminum verba 1,972 or so is one book that you can look at.
There's a book by raven wolfener Stephen Ronstein ronstone i'm sorry who voted that's another book, and the literature goes on, and up all I want to do in terms of
just giving you some idea of what are the factors that influence people's participation in the political process of this country, and they're essentially 5.
You can probably develop more. But these are general categories.
Most of the literature of political science, and I think Mr.
Verba would agree with me on this. People tend to vote because they have a sense of doing.
What does that mean? A sense of doing? They regard participation as important.
Now, why would you say that this is a factor that influences body?
Now this is a very somewhat optimistic value, Right? a sense of duty.
What? Why would you say that people in this country have some people more because they have a sense of doing?
Why right? and then probably it sends mostly from your homes and your childhood, when you're told you're an American citizen, and it's your civic duty you know, towards other people, and you know getting the government going to vote
and put your 2 cents in because without you then you won't have government same.
So of jury, maybe 2 good point as we go through some of these these 5.
I want you to think of the agents of socialization, because I want you to think, if we get to the discussion on Chicago, how do those ages affect us?
Such kind. Number one sense of duty who is responsible for inculcating that sense of duty?
One. The family's your primary. agent to the educational institutions. I mean from the time that you start getting garden to the time that you graduate from a university, it's constant, constant, but somewhat of a consistent
bombardment of values attitudes etc. reinforcing the nature of the political system and the virtues of participating in the political process.
So in essence, what i'm saying is you acquire this through the socialization process that we've discussed on it.
Yes, I think that it's more to see that this doesn't exist more than it does.
And That's Why, people don't vote it seems that I mean you talk to people. they have an attitude.
I can't make a difference that's why I don't go my responsibilities.
That's why I hope there's not a sense of duty from the beginning.
Suppose they were getting it? Why do you suppose that has changed?
And this is a much of a recent phenomenon much more because you've had declining order participation levels since the 1,900 seventys. I'm.
Giving you the answer. What has been the problem contributing to what you just said?
Well I agree. I do like you, say but I think maybe one of the reasons could be.
They're not being represented they don't think they're being represented, seemingly direct results for them coming out of the representation.
The Government using control. You need a lot of people car that's underway.
They wrote their pocket, but they both definitely their pocketbooks right, that's true.
What would you add? Well, you say whatever extent is like they say there's not much toys between payment less. what's in the bush.
I don't think we have much trust trust question this is Why more corruption?
What did you have in the Seventys now? let's talk about that? What did we have? new model in the beginning?
William in the late Chicago Vietnam. Go ahead! Excellent!
What does Vietnam do? turn the youth, especially against the government policies?
The educated youth more so. Those were I think the people that we're going to be buying as they went on.
They lost people in the system. they lost trade and their leaders on that score.
Would you see that most of you, without getting personal? Here are products in terms of birth.
Of the sixtys. all of you were born in the sixtys from the seventys right.
So that means that most of your parents very much part of the year of this Sixtys right.
All right, would you say, go back to you that your parents were very much influenced by the Vietnam war one way or the other?
Yeah, which way photography total apathy Why, well, my mom told me that she just, I don't know.
I think she just got burnt out. She got sick and tired of turning on the news and taking another cruck band or another another scandal breaking out.
She knew friends that were dying. And did you know she had friends that were drafted?
Percent were dying. She didn't believe in the system she just didn't care anymore.
There was just a lot of negatives that built up, and she just let it go. Ok, how about you?
How about your parents? that was adopted and started to make it very long?
But he was in a military. Okay, I don't know if my Dad really folks got it.
I know we come from a lot of military men. so he kind of felt a sense of duty.
Was there a sense of betrayal? Who else wants to show something?